Clean Water and Sanatation
Access to safe water, sanitation, and hygiene are some of the most basic human needs for an individual's health.
The demand for water is currently rising due to rapid population growth, urbanization, and increasing water needs from agriculture, industry, and energy sectors.
Water is a necessity to survive and not having access to clean water will severely impact someone's life. 
Global water stress has held at 18 per cent since 2015, with one in ten people now living under high or critical stress of needing access to water. 
Along with that, water scarcity is projected to increase with the rise of global temperatures as a result of climate change.
There is a clear need for more countries to invest in sanitation facilities and improving water-use efficiency is one key to reducing water stress.
Access to clean water is improving and between 2015 and 2024, the proportion of the world’s population with access to safely managed drinking water increased from 68 per cent to 74 per cent. 
However, in 2024, 2.2 billion people still lacked safely managed drinking water, 3.4 billion people lacked safely managed sanitation, and 1.7 billion lacked basic hygiene services at home. 
These numbers are extremely high especially since water is a basic human need to survive. 
Weather plays an important role in whether certain countries have access to clean water. 
For example, droughts in specific areas are exacerbating water scarcity and thereby negatively impacting people’s health and productivity and threatening sustainable development and biodiversity worldwide. 

Article Example of Clean Water Problems: America’s Failing Drinking Water System

Key Points: Chronic underinvestment has left water infrastructure outdated and on the verge of collapse in many places across the country. 
Example: historic flooding last summer damaged operations at a water treatment plant in Jackson, Mississippi, leaving more than 150,000 people without safe drinking water for weeks.

Key Points: Substances known as PFAS, industrial pollution, and agricultural runoff are contaminating the drinking water for hundreds of millions of people and many don’t even know it.
Example: In Buffalo, New York, 64% of houses are more than 80 years old, giving the city the distinction of having the oldest urban housing stock in the United States. Unfortunately, the pipes that bring water to those homes are often just as old, exposing many residents to lead, a neurotoxin. Nearly 6%of Buffalo’s children have elevated lead levels in their blood, which is triple the exposure rate of Flint, Michigan.

Graph Example of Access to clean water: The graph below portrays how significant having access to clean water is for individuals.
