Zero Hunger
Hunger issues have been on the rise especially in developing countries where population rates are continuing to rise at an alarming rate.
Hunger problems are not just present in developing countries but also present in some developed countries that encounter extreme income inequality or lack of funding in specific rural areas in need of food. 
Technology developments and  more funding to food programs are some essential ways to help fight against these hunger predicaments and also deal with issues like food losses and waste. 
Some areas in specific countries may not even have access to nutritious food because of limited agricultural development and therefore experience harsh living conditions.
In recent years, programs created by world leaders such as “The Zero Hunger Challenge”,  have gained support from many countries and the goals of this program are to accomplish: zero stunted children under the age of two, 100% access to adequate food all year round for all individuals,  make sure all food systems are sustainable, let there be a 100% increase in smallholder productivity and income, and make sure there is zero loss or waste of food worldwide. 
Other factors and SDG goals  such as extreme poverty and climate change have caused an increase in these hunger issues worldwide. 
These SDG issues are very closely linked and by fighting against either one, it could greatly help with both issues. 
One of the main steps to solve hunger is to make sure that agriculture systems worldwide  are more productive and less wasteful. 
Sustainable agricultural practices and food systems must first be improved in order to counteract hunger issues. 
There are many tradeoffs in addressing these agricultural and hunger issues but using more expensive energy and potentially harmful resources in this progress could be a tradeoff individuals are willing to make.
Using organic fertilizers could be more expensive too but the food produced would be healthier and could allow/encourage more food production.
In 2024, many developing countries in Africa have taken steps to address these hunger issues that they greatly suffer from.
Rising food prices also disproportionately affect low income households, which allocate a significant share of their income to food. 
Food prices increasing is a key reason why many low income families suffer from undernutrition and limited access to food.

Zero Hunger Article: Food Security and Nutrition Around The World

Key Point (Signs of Improvement): Updated global estimates point to signs of a decrease in world hunger in recent years. An estimated 8.2 percent of the global population may have faced hunger in 2024, down from 8.5 percent in 2023 and 8.7 percent in 2022.

Key Point:  In 2024, hunger affected about 307 million people in Africa, 323 million in Asia and 34 million in Latin America and the Caribbean – 20.2, 6.7 and 5.1 percent of the population, respectively.

Key Point: The gender gap narrowed at the global level from 2021 to 2023 but increased slightly in 2024, with the prevalence of food insecurity remaining consistently higher among women than among men, globally and in all regions.

Key Point: Food prices rose throughout 2023 and 2024, pushing up the average cost of a healthy diet globally to 4.46 purchasing power parity (PPP) dollars per person per day, up from 4.30 PPP dollars in 2023 and 4.01 PPP dollars in 2022.

Key Point: Child overweight remained largely unchanged, with a prevalence of 5.5 percent in 2024 and 5.3 percent in 2012. Actions aimed at preventing overweight in children must be stepped up to achieve the 2030 target of 3 percent.


Zero Hunger Graph: Portrays some countries experience high undernourished amounts due to lack of access to food and other demographic factors 
