# data_story_3
Mini chapter summaries
Good Health and Well-Being:
The third sustainable development goal is to ensure healthy lives and promote well being for individuals of all ages.
This goal helps aim to: reduce global maternal mortality rate, end preventable death to newborns, end and help fight against epidemics such as AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and other communicable diseases, reduce non-communicable diseases, help with prevention of substance abuse, half the number of deaths and injuries from road accidents, ensure universal access to sexual and reproductive health-care services, achieve universal healthcare, and lastly, help reduce the number of deaths from harmful chemicals and pollution. 
These goals are easily achievable by countries with money and access to lots of healthcare services; however, many developing countries struggle to meet these goals because of wealth differences and certain inequalities encountered.
Various determinants of health, including environmental and commercial factors, need attention to pave the way for achieving our common objective of Health for All. 
There are many tradeoffs too when trying to promote better health for all and it's important that the cost of these services don’t outweigh the benefits.
A good example of how important access to good healthcare can be was with the Covid-19 pandemic.
During this period, vaccination rates of newborns and children declined along with an increase in other diseases such as malaria which greatly hurt efforts of SDG 3. 
Along with this, universal healthcare is not present in many countries and access to healthcare in rich countries is sometimes difficult.
Many countries are even experiencing a rise in healthcare costs which makes access to universal healthcare more difficult. 
An increased investment in health systems is needed to support countries in their recovery and build resilience against future health threats.
Also the more healthy individuals within a country are, the more likely their economies are doing well. 
Overall, investment in healthcare by countries' governments can better support health and well-being goals leading to a better society.

Good Health and Well-Being Article: “All Sustainable Development Goals Support Good Health and Well-Being”

Key Point:  Quote from Article: “There is a general global sense that health and healthcare are fundamental rights. In the United States, our founding fathers declared a right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness: while life and health may not be equivalent, the absence of the former eradicates the latter, and the absence of the latter likely compromises liberty and the pursuit of happiness”. → Need for better access to healthcare

Key Point: The Global Burden of Disease Collaboration has created a way to track progress on SDG 3 by creating an index of 37 health-related indicators that have been calculated for 1990 through 2030. 

Key Point (Maternal and child health): Global healthcare systems face numerous challenges, with maternal and child health remaining critical concerns. Despite a global reduction in maternal mortality, progress has been limited, and still, 170 deaths per 100,000 live births worldwide, along with preventable neonatal and under-five deaths, cause more than five million deaths per year globally. 

Key Point: Mental health issues are increasing and can be categorized in this SDG 3

Key Point: Health inequities are another significant challenge of healthcare systems worldwide. 

Key Point: Socioeconomic factors significantly determine public health outcomes that ensure well-being at the individual and community levels.


